I started reading a book the other day and it prompted some interesting thoughts
I'd like to explore here.

First and foremost, I see this as the purpose of a book report - that horrid
assignment from my youth. For some reason or another no amount of education ever
convinced me that there could be reason behind those. In a similar vein to my
last piece, I couldn't see the point of the report but now it is abundantly
clear and I can't help but wonder if presented in another light I could've
arrived at this same mentality 15 years sooner.

The book is called "The 7 habits of successful people" or something equally
disgusting. I've never been attracted to self help books - I see them largely as
fraudulent people selling fraudulent ideas to people who feel less than. Often
the ideas can be distilled to the same content as the subreddit r/thanksimcured.
You can't read your way to success anymore than you can read your way to a
physically strong body. No amount of education is going to change a thought
process which doesn't want to change (side note: interesting reflection on the
above paragraph).

But the book was assigned as part of the orientation process at my job, so I
figure what the heck, I'll give it a try. It begins by reiterating my own
thoughts: self help books are hacks, reading won't get you where you need to be,
and similar points. It claims to instead focus on something deeper - an attempt
to fundamentally shift your perspective on life to the extent that you actually
become a different person with this book.

Now I'm by no means an expert on self help books, but I will say, if I had to
establish myself in a large marketplace, one way I could go about doing that is
saying that everyone else is nonsense and my way is the only successful way of
approaching a problem. This isn't the point of my discussion however.

Instead, I kept reading and came across an interesting quotation from Thoreau,
"For every thousand hacking at the leaves of evil, there is one striking at the
root." Certainly I'm not the only person to ascribe meaning to this statement,
but it merits thought.

We like to feel unique in this world. There are so many people, so many things
going on around us but all we can see is ourselves. We live in our own minds
without really knowing how others experience the world. I want to be the unique
person striking the root; I'm sure every other person around me would like to be
as well. Our intention as individuals is indeed to remain individual and to
create meaningful difference.

At the same time, we may all _want_ to enact change on the world, but very few
succeed in a large way. To that end, Thoreau is definitely right. There simply
isn't enough success real estate for everyone to be noteworthy.


Finally, whenever I read I am always bothered by the amount of overlapping
knowledge I encounter. Far too often I find myself rereading the same sentiment
just rephrased or put in a new context which doesn't actually add value (don't
get me wrong; sometimes a new context can be revolutionary). Writing is often
structured for this: Introduction, Background, Ideas, Conclusions. Many of those
steps are, for lack of a better word, boring. The meat, the heart of the topic
is the Ideas and the Conclusions. Wouldn't it be great if you were presented
with a new idea, this complete thought, which you could then backtrack from.
Zoom into the parts of the idea you haven't seen or don't fully understand to
find their background. Zoom out of the idea to find the important conclusions.
The Idea is the key piece of information, and the way we structure that
information is vital.

