Talking with people

In many Pokemon games, it is impossible to pass beyond the second town without
talking to the required NPCs. I don't mean the NPCs that are part of the
storyline, the ones that you are *told* to talk to, I mean the people living in
a house that provide you with the Cut HM, or the ones that give you a side quest
so that they stop blocking your path.

Pokemon uses these early NPCs to teach the player that there are rewards for
exploring the map. Not only visiting a town to find new Pokemon and Trainers,
but also to meet a new group of people - some might give you quests, some might
give you advice, and some are completely useless. The diverse nature of these
NPCs builds out the world into something more than just a single play-through
quest; it makes a customizable story.

The phenomenon is not unique to Pokemon, most any well developed RPG will invest
some level of detail on the characters that your player will interact with
serving similar roles to the Pokemon NPCs above.

Of course, the real world mimics good video games. Meeting and talking with new
people, people who aren't friends or family creates all sorts of possibilities.
As someone who has recently moved to a new town, I feel connected to my previous
Pokemon games - searching for people to help me or give me advice. On my first
day, I've talked with many different people, people I could have ignored
instead, and as a result I received a free ride to my destination, a discount on
my climbing membership, and information about a game store I wouldn't have
otherwise.

My point here is that I could spend my time in a new town progressing like a
single player RPG ignoring those around me and just trying to get through to my
next mainline story checkpoint, or I could invest in the area and do some side
quests! Who knows, they might even help me in my main quest down the road.

