Proposal for: Linguistic
Similarity Embeddings using
Siamese Neural Networks.

Previous work has show the
effectiveness of siamese
networks at creating an
n-dimensional mapping from
input to output based on
similarity features.
These networks exploit the
same architectures of
traditional neural nets,
however, instead of a single
input, siamese nets will take
two input samples and learn to
map their features to a
"similar" location in the
n-dimensional result space.
A "similar location" can be
defined by any reasonable
distance metric: euclidean
distance and cosine similarity
are mostly commonly used.

One the network learns to
embed its training pairs it
has built clusters of
concepts. Provided strong
input data, the space will be
able to map new inputs it has
never seen onto previously
established clusters and even
create entirely new clusters
as it sees fit.

Siamese networks have famously
been used to perform facial
recognition, where input data
is separated into different
angles on a single face, but
recently they have been used
to perform other normalization
tasks such as named entity
normalization in chemical and
protein entities.

I propose using siamese
networks to model the
similarity between words
through the evolution of
language. Language evolution
is fluid and new words are
often simply variants of old
words. Using pairs of (known)
new and old word pairs as
input, the goal would be to
discover what could
potentially be other
transitions we might have
missed in language
documentation over the years.
Additionally, this work would
have cross-language
application.

Using etymology databases it
is possible to find the
history of tens of thousands
of different words across many
languages. Initially the
project would only be scoped
to look at the history of a
single language but it is
possible we could better train
a model to learn two child
languages and one parent
language (children: spanish,
french, parent: latin).

Finally, there is the
possibility to convert the
process into a sequence to
sequence network and attempt
to recreate historic versions
of modern terms.
This seq-to-seq network, if
functional, could potentially
make great estimates at
ancient and prehistoric
languages, recognizing
patterns that no human could.

