# Titles are dying with the
next generation

While the previous generations
place large importance on
their titles and distinctions,
it has become much more
socially appealing to display
yourself as a humble commoner.
We try to be the cool kids,
and don't seek to elevate
ourselves above those without
the same title.
Actions speak far louder than
words in the age when
everything can be displayed.
Historically, the only way to
convey one's prestige was
through the acknoledgement of
others, being knighted and
graduation were testiments
from a trusted organization
that you passed some set of
qualifications. These titles
show that others believe in
you.
Now that anyone can publicly
display everything they can do
online, it is much less
important to have testiment
from others.
The titles become irrelevant. 
Your credibility comes from
your actions and not others.
Reputation will be earned, not
given.

This is a good thing. A future
without titles leads to
greater equality and better
treatment of all, not just
those who were fortunate
enough to find someone to
bestow a title.
In some ways this will be the
democratization of prestige.
The Internet allows for a
proof of competency.

However, with this idea comes
the same set of issues present
with all other benefits of the
Internet. We can lie, trick,
and confuse larger masses of
people through the information
found on the web.
One solution around this is
Content Curation as a Service
(CCaaS), which looks to find
reputable information and
disseminate that to followers
much the same as news of the
20th century did. These CCaaSs
provide specific insights into
what they believe to be
relevant, and often provide
brief descriptions or
reasoning behind each topic
mentioned.
This solution circles back to
the current title'd approach.
We will delegate to certain
establishments or people to do
our fact checking, and
accredidation for us, to save
us the work of doing it
ourselves.
This is effectively transfer
the burden of titling to these
CCaaSs, as opposed to
Universities or monarchs.
Despite this, we will
potentially still have a big
win. It is significantly
easier for multiple CCaaSs to
accredit a single author,
painter, thinker than for
multiple universities. Drawing
upon ideas from distributed
systems, we can see this as
attempting to find consensus
among multiple sources instead
of a single monolithic source.
Familiar to some, the Stellar
Consensus Protocol allows for
an individual who trusts some
small subset of all CCaaS to
establish consensus on the
creditability of a source
through quorum slices of the
whole network of CCaaS.

It is at this point that I see
I have diverged significantly
from the original idea of the
writing session, but can't
help but to think this is a
legitimate idea.

