Consumables are hard to use

I have played countless video
games over the course of my
life. Ranging from simple
flash games like the Mars
mining game "Motherload" to
large triple A titles such as
Skyrim and WoW.
In these games the worlds and
characters may change, but one
thing remains constant:
consumables are hard to use.
In video games, similar to the
real world, a consumable is
something that your character
can only use a limited number
of times. A pie in Runescape
for example can be eaten in up
to three slices in order to
regain health. Elixirs are one
of the most common categories
of consumables, often granting
magical bonuses to stats or
skills. The purpose of these
elixirs is to aid you when you
need them most, and therein
lies the problem.

Figuring out when you need a
consumable the most can be
near impossible when playing
through a game the first time.
Sure the experienced veterans
might know *this* is the boss
to toss in all the potions
for, or here is where it is
extra important to buy a Spc
Atk Up, but the new players
have no intuition for how or
when to consume the consumable
and out of fear of needing it
shortly down the line they may
never end up using it.

To an extent you can argue
that consumables are for the
experienced player. It is
entirely possible to reach end
game in WoW or beat the Elite
4 without the aid of temporary
boosts, but they will make the
process easier for the second
time through -- smoothing out
some of the potentially less
exciting parts.

As an alternative, one that I
greatly prefer, some games
offer very slight permanent
stat boosts instead of the
large temporary effects. This
is a much more rewarding
experience for new players
since they can easily see the
progress they are making
(often orthogonal to the
primary progress measurement).

Interestingly I see this
manifest itself in my real
life. In a game, I view the
consumables as meaningless.
Not only do I not want to use
them now, I could never want
to use them; so I sell them.
As a human, I am minimalist. I
do not keep items which I
perceive as having little
permanent value, instead
choosing to pass them on to
others who maybe are on their
second round through.

