Some New Year's Resolutions.

I do not intend for this list
to be comprehensive nor
binding.
It will be a list of things
that I am interested in
pursuing through the next
year, time permitting, with an
explanation of the goal and
motivations behind it.

1. Write weekly.
Writing has been such a
screen into my mind, one that
I love to watch. I want to
write at least once a week,
ideally almost daily to
exercise my writing skills as
well as my personal reflection
and my thought processes.

2. Meditate Daily.
In a similar vein to
writing meditation has brought
me a lot of spiritual
connection. My mind, energy
and emotions have never felt
more in sync. I'd like to
maintain a relatively
consistent meditation
schedule.

3. Read constantly.
    In the later half of 2019,
I was able to read 14 books in
a little over 10 weeks.
Setting a lofty goal like the
52 book challenge sounds fun,
and I'll attempt it, however I
do not feel burdened by this
specific goal.

4.

