## I enjoy writing!

Never thought I would
experience that. The written
assignments I've enjoyed are
outweighed one hundred to one
with those I've despised. No
homework was worse than an
English class essay, no task
more dreaded than the history
report. Writing didn't
interest me. It didn't
interest me when it was about
science, education, thinking,
reading, there was no topic
that was worth it for me to
put on a page.

Last year, I wrote my second
statement of purpose for
graduate school. The first was
drawn up in an engineering
fashion; I organized the
single page to talk about the
most important projects I had
worked on and the reasons I
thought a Master's program
would be good for me. Last
year was different. The letter
I wrote felt like the perfect
collection of my thoughts on
what I had done, a reflection
on my past work. It felt
concise and to the point,
scientific. I felt that I had
created a piece of art as a
reflection of me.

Writing hadn't done that
before.
It wasn't supposed to! I don't
enjoy writing and it doesn't
enjoy me.

But something had changed.
Something _has_ changed. I'm
not certain myself what it is.
It could be the reports I
wrote as a graduate student;
writing out academic papers
about computer science was
intriguing to be sure. The
rigor I had to bestow into the
work translated directly onto
the paper. It could be the
internal monologue shifted. My
thoughts feel more pronounced.
They come to my head clearer
now than ever before. I've
existed for twenty three and a
half years but only felt awake
for the past twelve months.

This new mentality needs to
express itself. There is so
much more being created
everyday all the time. I have
things I need to share; ideas
I want to experiment with;
opportunities I need to
capture! And more than
anything I want to scrawl them
onto a notebook, or type them
on my keyboard. Stare at those
words and thoughts as they
manifest themselves --
documenting my inner monologue
and freezing it in time. Proof
that there is something there.


